Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we will apply collision detection and draw the snake's body.
All right, so.
First off, what I would like to do is let's draw our snack, the thing that the snake is chasing after.
So let's put that here and I'm going to call it a draw snack.
And dysfunction, that's first stuff created, define it, so draw sneck.
This function is going to create a square for us, which we are going to call snack, of course, so
we are going to grab our context and we are going to say film style.
Now, what color should it be?
I put it to red.
I'm just going to put it to red.
And the Phil wrecked is going to be what is the position?
So we are going to grab this snacks exposition times, the tile count, the same thing.
And then the snacks y position times the tile count and for this size is going to be tile size.
Now, the size is exactly the size of the head of the snake.
That's the thing that you have to provide it with that size.
So now that we have created the function, let's go ahead and actually call this function.
So I'm going to come on top of the draw snake.
Well, didn't I copy it?
I think I did.
So let me copy it.
Let me delete this from here.
And put it there, save it.
There we go.
So this is the snake, of course, we will be going right through the snake now, but whenever whenever
we get to the collision detection, whenever a headset, then we will be, well, basically the snake
will be just eating it.
So.
Next up, I'm going to apply collision detection for our snack first, so underneath so.
First off, let's go ahead and let's call it I'm going to say snack snack Kuli Culley deti.
I think we have done this before.
So it's going to be snack quality, a collision detection, I'm sure you know what I mean.
And let's put it right here.
So we are going to say function snack quality and let's grab that one and put it here and also put the
function here.
Whoops, what was that so snack colly dirty not state that.
And there is an I missing.
Perfect.
So what do we want to do within this now, whenever the head of the snake heads the snack, we want
the snake to disappear and reappear somewhere else.
That is basically what we want to do.
So if if the snacks X equals these snakes heads X, and keep in mind, this is this should be a logical
or because we don't just want to check for one direction, we want to check for both of the axes and
that is X and Y.
So if the snacks Y.
Snack Y also equals the snakes y position of the head, then what do we want to do?
We want to reposition our snack, so let's grab the position of the snack and we are going to save snack
math dance floor.
And within there, we're going to say randomise the position so that random times tile count, we don't
want it to go out of the tiles.
Right.
We are going to do the same thing for why we don't want him to be equal.
There could be cool.
Like, of course they will be equal by random.
So I think we are done here, so.
Let's actually go ahead and save this and let's see if it if it is going to work.
There we go.
You can see that the we don't there are still a lot of functionality missing, but the important one
is whenever the snake hits it or eats it, then it is going to reappear somewhere else within the canvas.
Of course, that should be a priority.
Now, what I would like to do is I would like to go ahead and create a class for a snake body.
So it is going to be the snake body class, the snake body class.
Right, so we are going to say class snake.
This is going to be very, very, very simple, we just have a constructor and we're going to pass in
the X and the Y position arguing said this dot X equals X and this study Y equals Y.
Perfect.
Let's save it.
So now what should we do with this?
Where should we call it?
Right.
First off, we need an array to contain all of these snakes parts or snake's body parts.
So what I would like to do here, as I would like to say, snake body array, so all of these snakes,
body parts are going to be within this array.
You say CONSED, it is getting very graphic.
So let's move on.
And now within our draw snake function.
So where is our draw snake function.
We have drawn the snake there within there.
Let's go ahead and let's draw the the body.
So let's call our context.
The body is actually is consisting of parts.
Each of the parts is actually one square in this case.
So we are going to say film style.
Let's put it to green.
Sorry, orange.
Green is the head and let's let's loop over it.
So we are going to tell it I equals zero.
We are looping over the length of the body.
So we are going to I goes all the way to snakes bodies length.
All right.
So length.
And then we will increment I by one each time because we want to create one part at a time.
So now let's grab each of the parts and that part is going to be the snake bodies iterator in this loop.
So we are going to grab our fill wrecked.
And for each time this loop runs, we will create one part.
What is the exposition of the part?
The exposition of the part is simple.
What is the wide position that is also simple.
What is the size now?
The size is the tile size, the size that we have had so far.
So we are going to say part X times.
Times the tile count, that is the exposition, the Y position is going to be part Y times tile count,
tile size four with tile size four with and tile size.
So height.
All right.
So we are done with.
Now let's grab our array, which is snake body, and we are going to push to it that class that we have.
So we are going to instantiate the snake body class right here.
And we need two positions, X and Y.
So the X position is going to be the snake's exposition, the snake's heads position and the Y position
is going to be the snake head y position.
The reason that we are doing it this way is because you can see that right after the head is where the
body is being redrawn right now.
All right, so we should be able to see something.
OK.
So let's go ahead and let's actually save this.
And hopefully we should do we should see something so now.
There we go.
You can see that there is a problem clearly, but why is that problem?
It is because whenever we are moving the snake in one direction, we are not clearing it from its previous
position.
And that is going to create for us this whole mess, this all of this mess.
And you can basically fill the screen with the snake.
Right.
So we need to clear the position of the snake, the position of the body of the snake.
And.
OK, so how do we do that?
Where does the array so the array is going to be our snakebit it that is something that we need to clear
in its previous iteration.
So we are going to grab the snake body.
So if snake body
snake body length is greater than its tail snake tail.
Length, then we want to grab the snake body.
Where is the body?
There we go.
We want to grab it and we want to call the shift method, which is going to remove the first element
from the array.
Right.
So let's save it.
And now let's go ahead and check it again.
So there we go.
So originally, when it starts, we want the snake's body to to have a length equal to its tail.
We don't want it to be bigger if it is bigger than it is going to be drawn all over the screen.
If it is equal to that, then whenever you eat something, then the tail is going to increase.
All right.
I'm going to reiterate this one more time.
Whenever we start the game, we want the body to have a size of the tail.
If in case in the starting point, the size is not the size of the tail, but the size of the body is
greater than the size of the tail.
We want to remove the first item from the array.
OK, there we go, and you can see that it is not if the tail were to be like three parts, then you
would see three parts, right?
But the tail is not parts.
The tail is only two parts.
That's why you can see only two parts.
Right.
So I think with this, our lecture comes to an end, right, and in the next lecture, what we will
do is we are going to go ahead.
We are going to draw the score.
We are going to draw the game over.
And we will also also handle wall collision.
Right.
And whenever the snake hits the wall, we are going to say go game over.
Whenever the snake hits its own body, we are going to say game over.
So with our next lecture, this project is going to come to an end.
So see you guys in the next lecture.